Now that we've built a native binary
for our Quarkus application,
let's have a look at how
to containerize that.
We did a build that took
place in a container,
but the artifact was still
produced in our target directory,
so it was outside.
Now, the best way to take advantage of
this native building capacity is
to actually containerize
the binary itself as well.
It's very efficient because the only
binary you will be executing on top of
a minimal execution environment is
going to be the binary we have produced,
which saves a lot of space
that would otherwise be
occupied by the JVM and the unused
extra libraries and so on,
which makes the container
image even smaller
and quicker to download and
of course quicker to scale.
Just like we have talked in
the previous chapter of container
in Java applications in Quarkus,
native applications in Quarkus can use
the 3 most commonly used
containerization plugins.
So either Docker, where you add the
extension container-image-docker to
your Quarkus project or add the
dependency manually to your pom.xml.
Of course, that does require the Docker
Daemon to be running on your workstation,
or at least to have
a Docker Client binary that can
connect to a Docker Daemon somewhere.
The Jib extension is
a pure Java extension that does
not depend on any container runtime.
And you can actually use it
with Quarkus by adding container-
image-jib extension to your project,
or adding the corresponding
dependency manually.
The benefit of jib is of course,
that it is a pure Java implementation.
It is in itself a Maven plugin as well,
so you can use it outside of Quarkus
for your containerization needs too.
And with jib, the container
image usually needs to be
pushed somewhere after
the build because there is
no container engine to actually
hold it once it's done.
The third option is to use the Source2Image containerization plugin,
which actually copies
the existing artifacts
into a builder image in OpenShift,
which then creates an application
image in a Source2Image build,
which in turn depends on
the BuildConfig resource created
in the OpenShift cluster,
with the strategy of source.
And of course, an ImageStream that the
resulting image will be stored into.
These 2 are OpenShift
extensions to the Kubernetes API.
So if you use the Quarkus
OpenShift extension,
they will be automatically
generated during build.
You can add the S2I containerization extension
to the project using quarkus:add-
extension pointing to
container-image-s2i
or adding the extension
manually to your pom.xml.
Once that is done, the process of building
a container image using your
natively compiled application is
no different than creating a Java
application in a container image
except that you will be selecting the
native profile with maven package.
And of course, as usually,
you would set the container-image.
build quarkus property to true.
If you are using
jib or if you want to
store the image somewhere in
a registry after the build,
then you would also specify
Dquarckus.container-image.push
property, set it to true.
And ultimately, if you are using
a specific container runtime and
you don't want to use Docker,
then you can still specify Dquarkus.native.container-runtime equals podman
In previous chapters we have
discussed how to deploy
Quarkus Java applications to
OpenShift Container Platform using the
quarkus.kubernetes.deploy property.
The process is no different if we want to
deploy to OpenShift in a native mode.
So we simply switch to native profile
when doing the -Dquarkus.kubernetes.deploy
equals true build.
This is a binary build still though,
so the binary is built on
your workstation and then added
to an image inside the
OpenShift Container Platform.
So you have to take
care of certain things,
such as the architecture
of your workstation,
the architecture of the resulting binary,
and of course then
consequently the architecture
of the nodes that you want
to run the binary on.
Alternatively, you could go for source
container image deployment, it's basically
a Source-to-Image build
using the native profile.
Simply using oc new-app,
pointing to your source
code and specifying that
the image that is supposed to
be used for a build is going
to be /ubi-quarkus-native-s2i. That one contains all the Source-
to-Image scripts that
are needed to produce
a native binary from your
Quarkus source code.
Beware though that this is
a CPU intensive operation, it
is extremely CPU intensive.
So don't perform that unless
your OpenShift cluster has
specific nodes dedicated to build.
Or of course, you are
sure that you won't be
disturbing any production
applications doing it.
Let's go to the next video and
have a look at containerizing
native Quarkus applications
in practice. See you there.